blunt skepticism about the Warren Report
was a bipartisan affair with leaders on
both sides of the aisle
araly dismissing its conclusions we know
that President Nixon was a skeptic one
of his top aides White House chief of
staff HR Bob Haldeman shared his boss's
skepticism in his own 1978 memoir the
ends of power
Haldeman wrote that he'd always been
intrigued with the conflicting theories
about the assassination and he recalls
that when the White House when the Nixon
team finally moved into the White House
he felt that that quote would now be in
a position to get all the facts end
quote
but Nixon perhaps wary of what wary of
where all those facts would lead
rejected Haldeman suggestion
according to Haldeman Nixon did play the
assassination card in a mysterious way
however against CIA director Richard
Helms long regarded by some Warren
reports Warren Report critics to have
knowledge about the gunshots in Dallas
seeking to pressure the CIA into helping
him out of his Watergate mess Nixon had
hauled him and delivered this cryptic
message apparently a threat of some sort
to Helms quote the president asked me to
tell you this entire Watergate affair
may be connected to the Bay of Pigs and
if it opens up the Bay of Pigs may be
blown this is what Haldeman told Helms
in a meeting this prompted an explosive
reaction from the CIA spymaster turmoil
in the room Haldeman writes in his book
Helms gripping the arms of his chair
leaning forward and shouting the Bay of
Pigs had nothing to do with this
I have no concern about the Bay of Pigs
Haldeman speculates that the Bay of Pigs
must have been Nixon's code for
something related to the CIA Castro and
the Kennedy assassination but whatever
dark card Nixon had played too worked
according to Haldeman he reported back
to his boss that the CIA director was
now suddenly very happy to be helpful
Nixon was not willing to publicly reopen
the box of assassination demons but many
of them began flying out when the Church
Committee began investigating CIA abuses
in the 1970s including the unholy pact
the agency and the Mafia to eliminate
Fidel Castro among those in Washington
who were particularly curious about the
revelations that were come coming out
about the CIA and the Kennedy
assassination was George Bush George
Bush Senior as Kitty Kelly observes in
her new book about the Bush family while
serving as the CIA director in the
foreign administration Bush fired off a
series of memos in fall 1978 asking
subordinates in the agency various
questions about Oswald Ruby Helms and
other figures tied to the assassination
quoting from Kitty's new book years
later when Bush became president he
would deny making any attempt to review
the agency files on the JFK
assassination when he made this claim he
did not realize that the agency would
release 18 documents under the Freedom
of Information Act that showed he had
indeed as CIA director requested
information not once but several times
on a wide range of questions surrounding
the Kennedy assassination one of the
most aggressive investigators on the
church committee was the young ambitious
Democratic senator from Colorado Gary
Hart who along with the Republic his
Republican colleague Richard Schweiker
of Pennsylvania began digging into the
swampy murk of southern Florida in the
early 1960s here of course was the
steamy nursery for plots that do
together
CIA saboteurs mafia assassins
anti-communist cuban fanatics and the
whole array of patriotic zealots who
were determined to overthrow the Cuban
government the Iraq of its day Gary Hart
an interview with me said the whole
atmosphere down there in Florida at the
time was so yeasty I don't think anybody
Helms or anybody had it had control of
the thing
there were people clandestinely meeting
people the mafia connections the
friendships between the Mafia know CIA
agents and this crazy Cuban exile
community there were more and more
layers and it was honeycombed with
bizarre people I don't think anybody
knew everything that was going on and I
think the Kennedys were kind of racing
to keep up with it all end quote and
Gary Hart Schweiker is mind
was blown by what he and heart were
digging up there's no other way to
describe it here was a moderate
Republican from Pennsylvania and he
would be later chosen of course as vice
presidential running mate briefly by
Ronald Reagan in 1976 to bolster his
challenge against President Ford but
Schweickart faith and the American
government seemed deeply shaken by his
Kennedy probe which convinced him quote
the fingerprints of intelligence were
all over Lee Harvey Oswald Gary Hart
told me quote dick made a lot of
statements inside the committee at the
time that were a lot more inflammatory
than anything I ever said in terms of
his suspicions about who killed Kennedy
he would say this is outrageous we've
got to open this up we've got to reopen
it he was a blowtorch heart-to-
concluded that Kennedy was likely killed
by a conspiracy involving some feverish
cabal from the swamps of anti-castro
zealotry and when he ran for president
in 1984 Hart says whenever he was asked
about the assassination quote my
consistent response was based on my
church committee experience there are
sufficient doubts about the case to
justify reopening the files of the CIA
particularly on its relationship to the
Mafia end quote this was enough to blow
other people's minds as heart including
remnants of the Mafia family Florida
Godfather Santo Trafficante who plays a
key role of many JFK conspiracy theories
what Gary Hart then told me was
journalists cite Hirsch told me that he
interviewed buddies of trafficante
including his right-hand man who was
still alive when her she wrote his book
the dark side of Camelot he didn't put
this in his book but when my name came
up Gary Hart's name the guy laughed he
snored and said we don't think he's any
better than the Kennedys end quote from
Gary Hart I asked senator Hart you meant
that they were keeping an eye on you as
well at the very least said Gary Hart
this was in the 1980s when I was running
for president saying I would reopen the
Kennedy investigation anybody can draw
their own conclusions
end quote Hart of course never made it
to the White House but another
politician who had been deeply inspired
by JFK William Jefferson Clinton
did and like perhaps every other man had
seemingly who moved has moved into the
White House following the Kennedy
assassination
he too was curious about finding out the
real story of Dallas where the Kennedy
files the young president reportedly
asked soon after he went to work in the
Oval Office and what about that other
JFK from Massachusetts who also met
President Kennedy as a young man John F
Kerry if he's elected in November
will he be tempted to launch an inquiry
and try to find out what really happened
to his hero in Dallas Hart says he
doubts it you almost had to go through
it like I did with the church committee
he told me and get all the context
otherwise you have to be very careful
about falling into the conspiracy
category I at least had some credentials
to talk about it but if Kerry were to
bring it up people would just say he's
wacky he's obsessive as as hard observes
there are other ways to kill a leader
these days you can assassinate his
character